Title: Running zsh in Bash for Windows
Date: 2016-05-30 7:27
Category: BashForWindows
Slug: zsh-in-bfw
Status: published

Simply put, [zsh](http://zsh.org) is my favorite shell.  I also use the [oh-my-zsh](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh) plugin to get sane defaults and a slew of community-written plugins.  Obviously shell choice is very personal, but getting zsh running on [Bash for Windows](https://github.com/Microsoft/BashOnWindows) was a priority for me.

Since Bash for Windows is just getting off the ground, [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/Microsoft/BashOnWindows/issues/91) was tracking issues with zsh running.  Now that it's been closed, you can start running zsh on Windows.

## Installing zsh

First, ensure your Windows Preview build is up to date.

Then install zsh from your Bash prompt:

```
sudo apt-get install zsh
```

## Running zsh

Now, sitting at a bash prompt, run zsh:

```
zsh
```

You'll be presented with a series of menus to setup zsh.  You can take the defaults if you're installing oh-my-zsh, otherwise walk through the menus and choose your values.

Once done with configuration, you'll see this:

```
The code added to ~/.zshrc is marked by the lines
# Lines configured by zsh-newuser-install
# End of lines configured by zsh-newuser-install
You should not edit anything between these lines if you intend to
run zsh-newuser-install again.  You may, however, edit any other part
of the file.
```

zsh is now setup, you can check with --version:

```
zsh --version
zsh 5.0.2 (x86_64-pc-linux-gnu)
```

## Installing oh-my-zsh

I don't usually run zsh without oh-my-zsh, so let's install that as well.

You can see the full install guide [here](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh), but here's the basic command to run:

```
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh/master/tools/install.sh)"
```

You should see a message that your existing .zshrc has been replaces by oh-my-zsh:

```
Looking for an existing zsh config...
Found ~/.zshrc. Backing up to ~/.zshrc.pre-oh-my-zsh
Using the Oh My Zsh template file and adding it to ~/.zshrc
Copying your current PATH and adding it to the end of ~/.zshrc for you.
Time to change your default shell to zsh!
Password: 
```

Enter your password, and you'll see a block text "oh-my-zsh" confirming you're ready to go.

## Change the color scheme for oh-my-zsh

It's quick and easy to change your theme for oh-my-zsh.

First, check out [the list of themes here](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh/wiki/themes).

Then, open your ~/.zshrc file and change the theme entry to the theme you want:

```
vim ~/.zshrc
```

You'll see the theme section near the top.  Save, close, and restart zsh to see the color changes.

## Change your default shell to zsh

This is the last step - making zsh the default shell.  Oh Bash for Windows, given it's pre-release software, we want to make sure we can revert to the bash shell easily.

To set this up, open your .bashrc file in vim:

```
vim ~/.bashrc
```

Make the last line in the file this:

```
exec zsh
```

...and save.  The next time you start Bash for Windows, it will become ZSH for Windows before starting.

To revert the change, comment out the line above from your .bashrc file.
